what I'm questioning in this video is
not so much leadership as followership
an anonymous person asks durianrider why
does he say that mental illness is a
choice this makes him sound grossly
uneducated do you know anything about
schizophrenia ? that is not a choice
grow up durianrider replies that he was
clinically diagnosed with paranoid
schizophrenia he then claims that he
cured himself he refused all medication
he had a mental health warrant out for
his arrest he had to stay overnight in a
mental lockdown for observation he
closes by reflecting that everyone goes
through these types of problems in life
it's how we deal with it and choose to
recover that matters no not everyone
goes through stuff like this in life
actually in every society a very small
minority of people go through this type
of experience and I don't say that with
any glee in my voice I really don't have
any hatred towards this man but the
number of people who are considered
legally insane who are declared legally
incompetent and who are diagnosed with a
very serious mental disorder like
paranoid schizophrenia it's not everyone
it's not the majority it's a very small
minority of people and I've said it
before and I'll say it again if this guy
was my brother if durianrider was my
younger brother I wouldn't criticize him
at all I just say hey man I'm so happy
you're off the drugs I'm so happy you're
not homeless anymore I'm so happy you're
you know apparently not committed to a
mental asylum
it's great that you got your life
together and that would be that you know
he wouldn't want to engage in a critique
of someone who has this kind of
background or who makes these kind of
ridiculous claims the question is not
really his leadership the question is
his followership I am grateful for
discovering durianrider he taught me
about life more than I have learned in
15 years of studying and schools and in
the university so if you want to do
something you gotta [ __ ] do it's ok
so it's not just that simple no no say
I'm a [ __ ] drain by [ __ ]
victim can and I don't want to take any
responsibility pop pills from the mother
[ __ ] quack and take control my
thoughts take control of my diet taking
shot them a daily exercise activity who
are [ __ ] hang around with how I stand
my posture what time I go to bed I don't
take control their awesome yourself in
Todd a little whining [ __ ] mother
[ __ ] chance a no mother [ __ ]
psycho a psychiatrist or whatever so I
said pill pusher drug pusher ever really
ever ever helped me ever because there's
more money in keeping people ill than
helping them help themselves cure
themselves naturally why would anybody
take this guy seriously why would you
trust this guy with providing you with
health advice or with being the leader
of a political movement with doing the
other ridiculous and dangerous things he
does such as encouraging crowds of
people to beat someone up he labels
someone an enemy in the past he hasn't
just made violent threats against people
he's you know accused people being
pedophiles currently he's accusing one
guy of being a rapist and a sexual
predator apparently on the basis of
internet rumors well if you know that
somebody was clinically diagnosed as a
paranoid schizophrenic that's their
that's their background as durianrider
says himself this isn't an accusation
i'm making this is how he describes
himself why would you put him in that
position of political leadership why
would you trust him even with health and
diet advice let alone with making those
other contents
thoughts on fluoride and vaccines ? you
want to treat someone as a health expert
who neither believes in vaccines nor in
toothpaste fluoride toothpaste these are
two of the most heavily researched
topics in the history of Western science
anonymous questioner asks how are all
vaccines bad I don't get a flu shot or
anything like that but some you need to
get at some point or we'll be bringing
back some terrible diseases close quote
durianrider is not sure if this person
is serious during writer says that's
just as absurd as claiming that not
supporting child porn means that those
kids losing income yeah apart from being
crazy apart from being actually insane
durianrider is also stupid I'd encourage
any of you to really think about just
how stupid that statement is what's your
opinion on vaccines if you had a baby
would you vaccinate during writers
answer is no and you'll notice if you
read paragraph number one of durian
writers reply here rolled into this or
other completely insane internet-based
conspiracy theories like NWO and
chemtrails if you don't know what
chemtrails if you don't know what that
means don't look it up you don't want to
google this this is one of the stupidest
conspiracy theories going on the
internet but if you ask why is
durianrider so stupid and why are his
followers so stupid well
disproportionately these are the sort of
people who are early adopters of
veganism and they're the sort of people
who do a lot of their learning from
second-rate rumors on the internet
never learned how to evaluate what's a
reliable source of what's not who never
learned how to become autodidact you
know never learned the tough tricky work
of looking at three different sources
all of them biased and coming up with
the basic facts quote I saw freely
answer a question on her blog about a
week ago referring to vaccines as
poisoned and it was pretty shocked
surely you guys don't believe that ?
close call yeah well you might want to
reconsider your opinion that these are
smart people durianrider replies that in
his opinion vaccines are supposedly
toxic poisons that he'd never used them
personally do your own homework and draw
your own conclusions on the vaccine
industry given that i've had ludicrous
accusations have had people accuse me of
secretly working for the CIA secretly
working for monsanto you know that I'm
secretly working for the meat and dairy
industry or something and I've had a Fed
accusations that I'm on steroids and
trying to be a fitness guru of my own
that I'm trying to steal them as foes
you know given all the crazy accusations
someone might think instead might make a
more reasonable accusation that I'm
insinuating that we should instead be
looking to guys like this as political
leader this guy is Steve best Steve best
is a university professor with a PhD who
have criticized my channel now I'm gonna
I'm going to talk a little bit more
about during right I'm going to present
you with a few more quotations but who
he is and what his views in the world
are but I'm pausing here to digress to
say that no there are no easy solutions
with these problems of leadership and
followership uh Steve best obviously
here in this in this photo he's trying
to look like a bit of a hoodlum but he's
not he's a university professor he's got
a PhD he probably spends most of his
time you know writing report cards and
grading boring essays I'm sure he lives
a very conventional pro-establishment
life in many ways um
when you look at his writing you see a
totally different set of reasons there
are different concerns that would make
you not want to have this guy as a
political leader and that make him a bit
out of touch out to lunch whatever want
to say here's a quote this is not the
worst paragraph from a very long essay
he's written about Marxism and cultural
Marxism but Joe God just to read this
quote thus in the dialectic of
enlightenment 1972 Adorno and Horkheimer
argued that the powers of modern
rationality science and technology
championed by Enlightenment thinkers and
marxists led to domination not
liberation building on a 19th century
critique of low culture extending marks
and LU coaches analysis of commodity
fetishism and developing gram cheese
concept of culture as a form of hegemony
Adorno and Horkheimer described how
culture had become integrated into the
economy and a new culture industry
emerged an apparent oxymoron their
notion of culture industry showed how
capitalism had colonized culture and
everyday life how the integrity and
uniqueness of an artwork became
obliterated in conditions of mass
production how the intrinsic the culture
of expression was reduced to the
extrinsic value of profit and how
culture weekend and pacified rather than
stimulated and fortified the mind um I I
did not go fishing for the the worst
paragraph from the worst essay this
guy's ever written and the young to say
this isn't that bad but this really is
the type of writing that academic
Marxists do and there is a lot wrong
with it already and there were a lot of
hints here as to why this kind of guy
also is not a very successful leader of
the vegan movement now don't get me
wrong he's been all around the world
talking about veganism he's taught
courses about veganism he's given
lectures about veganism he has tried to
present himself as a radical vegan
activist and leader he's one of the few
who openly endorses violence and
criminal behavior
but if you know a little bit about
Marxism macademia you can see here in
this paragraph I've picked all these
other problems you know is meaningless
you know is like shuffling a deck full
of famous names can I mention Graham she
and Adorno in the same paragraph a lot
of I mean academic left-wing politics
look like this academic anthropology a
lot of stuff like this and you know the
the process of someone you know living
their lives engaged in this type of
political discourse I feel can separate
them from reality in a very different
way from how people like during writer
and freely are separated from reality
but I put this up here as a digression
to show there are other problems with
other kinds of people however right now
in 2016 the following that guys like
Steve best has is pretty tiny compared
to guys like during writer I think
interesting note one of the reasons why
Steve best is not more popular more
influential is that people see the
danger in what he's doing he talks about
violence he talks about Marxism you know
he's I would say he's a bit of a crypto
communist well communists have killed
millions of people Marxism as a
philosophy is linked to violence and
mass violence revolution and mass murder
in various ways and people can see a
problem in that and a lot of people want
to keep their distance politically also
by most countries you know the majority
people are clustered around the center
there neither left-wing nor right wing
and there are a lot of reasons to feel
uncomfortable with this so I understand
there are kind of natural limits this
guy's influence let's chef it's why art
for those natural limits exercise
themselves when you roll all this up
with the promise of Ed unlimited
calories and get thin quick with someone
who openly says that he is legally
insane question from up from a fan for
during writer how could he be diagnosed
with bipolar disorder and schizophrenia
at the same
time well during writer is no doubt that
you can because he has been diagnosed
with both anonymous question from a
medical student who would be curious to
know his complete diagnosis and indeed i
have to say i'm preparing this video i
had never before seen during writer
directly identify himself as being a
schizophrenic i had never seen that
before i had only seen him more vaguely
alluding to the fact that he had been
homeless in a prison and that he had
some mental disorder that prevented him
from adopting children but now we've got
schizophrenia and bipolar disorder and
he claims he's diagnosed as an anorexic
and he claims he was diagnosed with
Crohn's disease and magically healed
himself magically heal so he's magically
healed quite a few incurable diseases if
you believe him his bipolar disorder
schizophrenia and psychosis were most
likely directly linked to substance
abuse this person suggests this medical
student suggests you say you were a
street drug addict I don't understand
why a rational mind like yours would
compare your drug-induced disorders to
those of a kid born with schizophrenia
be careful with generalization hardly
you lose credibility by doing so have a
nice day well you know life is strange
you might think that someone who is
diagnosed with schizophrenia and bipolar
disorder is in the best position to have
an informed and attached opinion on this
but precisely the fact that he is
actually insane would impair his ability
to have a detached and rational
discussion about these issues like many
other issues the guy preaches about
durianrider replies thanks the reader
for chiming in and then said here's the
thing he had to see many psychiatrists
due to a bus accident pay out a legal
case durianrider psychiatrist said the
issues were caused by the accident and
his PSTD going crazy so I think that's a
typo for post-traumatic stress disorder
which would be PTSD there psychiatrists
the ones who work she prevents a proper
settlement proper payout said that he
was most likely born with a condition
yeah it is what it is I find it very
hard to read some of the the things that
Jerome rider comes out with on his
tumblr and YouTube and things like that
in in terms of eating disorders and that
there are choice and you can get over it
in your weight if you if you can't get
over your eating disorder I find that
incredibly incredibly ignorant and it's
very arrogant as well I don't understand
why more people don't talk about some of
the things that he says and it shouldn't
be taken lightly and it shouldn't be set
taken or something that people can
decide about it shouldn't be taken as
someone someone's deciding to have
depression someone's deciding to have
anxiety someone's deciding to have a
panic attack and for him to come out and
say that mental illness is something
that you can choose that you want what
the [ __ ] is your problem like where do
you where do you come off saying that
someone who has an eating disorder is
weak because they have an eating
disorder actually really horrible he's
speaking the truth but it's not the
truth it's negative it's rude it's
conniving and the Serena people wake up
to his [ __ ] it's just like his
attitude to people with mental illness
is [ __ ] demeaning it is horrible it
is really it is it is really uneducated
this doesn't just have implications with
Durham writer says about mental illness
that thinks people who are schizophrenic
can just make themselves not
schizophrenic he thinks that people with
crohn's disease can just make themselves
not have Crohn's disease anymore yeah I
wonder what his position is on soap oh
he's asked here do you think people are
born gay or is it a choice that make
later on in life like everything mental
he claims it is all a choice in the
moment actions are based on decisions
and sexual preference is a decision
decisions are moment to moment and when
we take action on them they create
results so durianrider claims being gay
is a choice and it's a choice that can
change moment to moment uh that's the
sort of thing some people believe it
like age 13 even age 15 what anyone I
mean regardless of your political
persuasion anyone with some depth and
breadth of life experience does not
believe that I think anyone who spent
real time around people diagnosed that
serious mental disorders also could not
could not share during writer's
perspective but again durianrider is
insane he has had the integrity to tell
you openly to give you the clearest
warning as to why you shouldn't trust
him I shouldn't take this seriously it
is what it is why would you care about
this guy's opinion with anything I
haven't we haven't we established enough
room for doubt based on what several
girls have written to me and told me in
person I would classify this Jack guy as
a sexual predator oh yeah well how would
i classify you during writer how would i
classify you x homeless ex-convict
ex-drug addict diagnosed schizophrenic
diagnosed with bipolar disorder and
you're trying to start a fight with
everybody and you are trying to create
conflict you were actively inviting
people you're saying he has said that he
himself would punch out this guy jack
how would i classify you during writer
why why would anyone take this seriously
maybe there's someone who could do with
duran riders pretending to do here maybe
there's someone who can investigate a
bunch of complaints independently and
come to conclusions better than the
police could come to because that's what
the writer is trying to do here right
but if there's one person on earth who
should never become a police officer
it's during writer he is mentally
incompetent and I don't even mean that
as an insult if there's one person on
earth who should never volunteer in an
orphanage something he talks about who
should never adopt a child who should
never be you know responsible for
babysitting or taking care of your kids
if there's one person who should never
be a police officer in a position of
authority making decisions about life
and death dealing with violence dealing
with other drug addicts dealing with
social problems it would be during
runner if there's one person who should
never be a medical doctor who should
never be responsible for giving medical
advice etc it's durianrider and yet this
is exactly the role he is choosing for
himself and it's the role that I don't
know maybe a hundred thousand vegan
idiots are all too happy or applauding
they're eager to see him play they're
eager to see him punch this guy in the
face they're eager to see him
look man I got fan mail recently from a
guy in the Netherlands shout out to him
I won't name him a guy in the other ones
who was telling me honestly he was
talking how much my channel meant to him
how reassuring you found it to to watch
my youtube channel and he said that he
is vegan and in public he often just
says that he's vegetarian to avoid
dealing with negative backlash etc and
he really talked about the way in which
people like durianrider and vegan gains
online made him feel ashamed to be vegan
made him question identifying with it
just publicly as a label made him
question whether or not there was any
political hope for the future for vegans
getting anything done and ultimately
made him consider quit quitting being
vegan entirely because the prospect for
the future of this movement it is the
feature of this idea seemed to him so
bleak after a period of like six months
of exposure to what's going on in in
veganism apparently what's visible up on
the surface a very human letter I mean
you know I appreciate hearing from the
guy and you know he also talked about
the way veganism and the limited chances
at activism fit into his life which I
talked about on this channel it's very
real he's got a job you think he
mentions both that he's got a job and
he's going to classes of some kind i'm
not sure what his educational situation
is he's got kids he's got
responsibilities you know veganism can
play some role in his life and he can
devote a certain number of hours to
veganism but it's limited and i'm going
to come back to the example i mentioned
earlier Steve best the university
professor some of these questions can
also arise with a guy like that some of
these questions people can say well look
people can feel that they're losing
faith in this movement having any future
people can feel that the name of
veganism is being discredited by people
who are radical Marxists or radical
anarchists or just academics just
academic thus Casey's and academic more
academic left wingers who frankly make
veganism seem ridiculous even when they
really are doing their best I mean you
know I don't I don't want to you know
insult i got to you even when they are
doing their best from their perspective
to propound and support and advanced
veganism i wish i could end this on a
positive note man but there there is
nothing positive to say durianrider is
formally diagnosed as a paranoid
schizophrenic in reality the recent
critiques have seen other youtubers
posting about them they're not even
appropriate you know unnatural vegan
just made a video about antinatalism
about having kids or not having kids the
sense in which they're not appropriate
is that they all presume to address
durianrider thoughts feelings fantasies
philosophy education they presume to
address durianrider as sane he has been
open with you about the fact that he is
insane and if you're still following
you're still taking him seriously it's
on you